Improve the JSON API documentation, clarify common json-api options, update the authorization/authentication sections. (#7133)
digital-asset/daml: docs/source/json-api/index.rst

    --query-store-jdbc-config "driver=org.postgresql.Driver,url=jdbc:postgresql://localhost:5432/test?&ssl=true,user=postgres,password=password,createSchema=false"

If the token cannot be read from the provided path or the Ledger API reports an authentication error (for example due to token expiration), the HTTP JSON API will report the error via logging. The token file can be updated with a valid token, and it will be picked up at the next attempt to send a request.
.. note:: The JSON API provides many other useful configuration flags, run ``daml json-api --help`` to see all of them.

Example session
***************
Authentication and Authorization
================================

.. code-block:: shell
The Ledger API and JSON API use the terms Authentication and Authorization to describe different aspects of their operation.
While these terms may sound similar they mean different things.

The JSON API essentially performs two separate tasks:

    $ daml new iou-quickstart-java --template quickstart-java
    $ cd iou-quickstart-java/
    $ daml build
    $ daml sandbox --wall-clock-time --ledgerid MyLedger ./.daml/dist/quickstart-0.0.1.dar

>     $ daml json-api --ledger-host localhost --ledger-port 6865 --http-port 7575

Reviewer: I actually think this is the most useful part of the doc :). I was planning to extend this section with `curl` examples showing how to submit a contract and exercise a choice and query the ACS:
```
curl -X POST -H "Authorization: Bearer $JWT" -H "Content-Type: application/json" -d @./create.json http://localhost:7575/v1/create
```

But I am fine removing this section if you think it should not be here.

Reviewer: @anthonylusardi-da I like the rest of the changes. Thanks a lot!

Author: We still have all of this, it's just parted out differently

https://github.com/digital-asset/daml/pull/7133/files/25338ca7845acd0a7b4b8857497a8a648ba9e39a#diff-acc1415ff18516eee3cce71dc3407d5cR50

Agree adding `curl` examples would be a great addition.

Author: While outside of this PR we could put the curl examples after the Authorization with WebSockets section/before HTTP Status Codes. This should generally match the order of operations for people developing DAML applications.

Reviewer: sounds good!

.. toctree::
   :hidden:
   :maxdepth: 3

   lf-value-specification
   search-query-language

Running the JSON API
********************

> .. warning:: Your JSON API service should never be exposed to the internet. When running in production the JSON API should be behind a `reverse proxy, such as via NGINX <https://docs.nginx.com/nginx/admin-guide/web-server/reverse-proxy/>`_.

Author: Changing it to a note.

With Query Store
------------------

Often when running the JSON API you'll want to cache queries, especially large queries, to decrease the workload of your underlying ledger.
The JSON API provides a way to do this by allowing you to specify a database to cache queries (currently PostgreSQL only).

In this case you can use the ``--query-store-jdbc-config`` flag, an example of which is below. 

.. note:: When you use the Query Store you'll want your first run to specify ``createSchema=true`` so that all the necessary tables are created. After the first run make sure ``createSchema=false`` so that it doesn't attempt to create the tables again.

.. code-block:: shell

    daml json-api --ledger-host localhost --ledger-port 6865 --http-port 7575 \
    --query-store-jdbc-config "driver=org.postgresql.Driver,url=jdbc:postgresql://localhost:5432/test?&ssl=true,user=postgres,password=password,createSchema=false"

.. note:: The JSON API provides many other useful configuration flags, run ``daml json-api --help`` to see all of them.

Access Tokens
=============

The JSON API essentially performs two separate tasks:

> 1. It talks to the IAM of the Ledger API to get data it needs to operate, for this it may need to *provide an access token to an IAM* that requires authentication.

Author: Just to clarify the IAM sits in front of the Ledger API? 

If my understanding is correct then from the perspective of someone running the JSON API and producing a client facing frontend the IAM and Ledger API are essentially indistinguishable as they're sitting at the same endpoint and part of the same workflow which is why I'm calling it the `IAM of the Ledger API`.

I also don't think this sentence implies that the Ledger API signs tokens.

> 1. It talks to the IAM of the Ledger API to get data it needs to operate, for this it may need to *provide an access token to an IAM* that requires authentication.

Reviewer 2: No it doesn’t sit in front  of the ledger API. The JSON API communicates directly with the ledger API without an IAM in between. user communicate with the IAM to get tokens.

> 1. It talks to the IAM of the Ledger API to get data it needs to operate, for this it may need to *provide an access token to an IAM* that requires authentication.

Author: Okay and after they get the token they give it to the JSON API which sends it to ?

> 1. It talks to the IAM of the Ledger API to get data it needs to operate, for this it may need to *provide an access token to an IAM* that requires authentication.

Reviewer 2: They give it to the JSON API which sends it to the Ledger API. But how you acquire the token is really independent of the JSON API so I wouldn’t mention this at all. Just link to the section on ledger authentication. The important part for the JSON API is which token it needs and which restrictions they need to obey to.

> 1. It talks to the IAM of the Ledger API to get data it needs to operate, for this it may need to *provide an access token to an IAM* that requires authentication.

Author: Thanks for clarifying. I tweaked it a bit more but want to mention and distinguish between both of these access tokens to avoid confusion.

> 1. It talks to the IAM of the Ledger API to get data it needs to operate, for this it may need to *provide an access token to an IAM* that requires authentication.

Reviewer 2: Now you have one section called Ledger API Auth and one called Party Auth. That’s still very confusing. Both are about ledger API authorization. There is a meaningful difference here but let’s please stick to the one that actually exists and not invent a new one:

1. The token supplied via the `--access-token-file` flag. This token is not decoded by the JSON API and only used for public endpoints for queries made by the JSON API itself not for user requests.
2. Party-specific tokens passed in by users when they make a request. Those tokens are decoded and thereby need to obey the JWT format + a couple of extra restrictions. Those tokens will be used for user requests.

I don’t think there is more to it. This isn’t authorization vs authentication, iam vs ledger API, ledger API vs parties or whatever else. Both are tokens passed from the JSON API to the ledger API which validates those tokens and checks that they have sufficient claims for the endpoints they are used on.

> 1. It talks to the IAM of the Ledger API to get data it needs to operate, for this it may need to *provide an access token to an IAM* that requires authentication.

Author: Yes but from the perspective of a developer they're both used at different parts of their program and someone developing the client facing portion of a DAML application is going to care more about when they use each token than the exact details of what is happening between JSON API and Ledger API other than getting the JSON API talking to the Ledger API. I've been writing with this user in mind since this is the "Building applications" section.

I also clearly botched some of the terminology earlier so let's get past that unless there's any remainders to fix. 🙂 

Lastly some questions:

- What should we call what I'm currently calling "Ledger API Auth"? Now changed to "Internal Access Token"
- Can you give me the docs.daml.com fully qualified link for the JWT documentation where it says <insert link here>. I want to make sure I'm linking to the right thing (is it this? https://docs.daml.com/daml-script/index.html#using-daml-script-in-distributed-topologies). I'll turn it into a relative link.

Sidenote, longterm I think it's worth having broad discussions on what types of documentation we need and how to keep a clear delineation between the various types (ex. Tutorial-style, Howto-style, and Reference-style).

> 2. It handles requests coming from one or more Parties, for this each party needs to provide an *access token with each request* it sends to the JSON API.

Author: Yes but it can handle multiple requests from multiple parties, even though each request comes with a token to a single party.

.. note:: At no point should this access token be provided to an end user, these are for internal use only.

Every IAM access token is different and will depend on what your specific ledger operator's IAM requires.
The JSON API server requires no access to party-specific data, only access to the ledger identity and package services.
A token issued for the HTTP JSON API server should contain enough claims to contact these two services but no more than that.
Please refer to your ledger operator's documentation to find out how.

Once you have retrieved your access token, you can provide it to the JSON API by storing it in a file
and starting ``daml json-api`` with the flag ``--access-token-file /path/to/your/token.file``.

If the token cannot be read from the provided path or the Ledger API reports an authentication error
(for example due to token expiration), the JSON API will report the error via logging. 

.. note:: If the token file is updated with a new token it will be picked up at the next attempt to send a request. You can use this to handle cases where an old token expires without restarting your JSON API service.

Party Auth
----------

> Every request from a client to the JSON API requires you to specify a party and some other settings,
> with a JWT token.  HTTP requests pass the token in a header, while WebSocket requests pass the token in a subprotocol.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Party-specific requests, i.e., command submissions and queries, require a JWT with some additional restrictions compared to the JWT imposed on the format described in <insert link here>: The set of parties listed in `actAs` and `readAs` must contain exactly one party. In addition to that, the application id and ledger id are mandatory. HTTP requests pass the token in a header, while WebSocket requests pass the token in a subprotocol.
```
Not too fussed about the wording but this needs to be documented precisely. It is also not true that all requests need this, e.g., allocating a party just proxies to the underlying service on the ledger API and does not attempt to decode the token.

> .. note:: While the JSON API receives the token it doesn't handle it itself. Upon receiving a token it will pass it on to the Ledger API's AuthService which will then determine if the token is valid and authorized. As such each token format is ledger/implementation-specific and the below example reflects only the format that is used for the DAML Sandbox.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.. note:: While the JSON API receives the token it doesn't validate it itself. Upon receiving a token it will pass it on to the Ledger API's AuthService which will then determine if the token is valid and authorized. However, the JSON API does decode the token to extract ledger id, application id and party so it requires that you use the JWT format documented here <insert link>.
```
It does decode the token for party-specific requests so it doesn’t actually work if your ledger requires a different token format.

.. code-block:: shell

    daml new my_project --template quickstart-java
    cd my_project
    daml build
    daml sandbox --wall-clock-time --ledgerid MyLedger ./.daml/dist/quickstart-0.0.1.dar

.. _start-http-service:

Start the HTTP JSON API Service
===============================

Basic
-----

The most basic way to start the JSON API is with the command:

.. code-block:: shell

    daml json-api --ledger-host localhost --ledger-port 6865 --http-port 7575

This will start the JSON API on port 7575 and connect it to a ledger running on ``localhost:6865``.

.. note:: Your JSON API service should never be exposed to the internet. When running in production the JSON API should be behind a `reverse proxy, such as via NGINX <https://docs.nginx.com/nginx/admin-guide/web-server/reverse-proxy/>`_.

With Query Store
------------------

To improve the performance of the JSON API you can configure it to use a PostgreSQL backend as a cache. This is particularly beneficial if your ACS changes only very little (compared to the whole ACS size) between queries. Note that the PostgreSQL backend acts purely as a cache. It is save to reinitialize the database at any time.

> In this case you can use the ``--query-store-jdbc-config`` flag, an example of which is below. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To enable the PostgreSQL backend you can use the ``--query-store-jdbc-config`` flag, an example of which is below. 
```

.. note:: When you use the Query Store you'll want your first run to specify ``createSchema=true`` so that all the necessary tables are created. After the first run make sure ``createSchema=false`` so that it doesn't attempt to create the tables again.

.. code-block:: shell

    daml json-api --ledger-host localhost --ledger-port 6865 --http-port 7575 \
    --query-store-jdbc-config "driver=org.postgresql.Driver,url=jdbc:postgresql://localhost:5432/test?&ssl=true,user=postgres,password=password,createSchema=false"

.. note:: The JSON API provides many other useful configuration flags, run ``daml json-api --help`` to see all of them.

Access Tokens
=============

The JSON API essentially performs two separate tasks:

> 1. It talks to the Ledger API to get data it needs to operate, for this it may need to *provide an access token* if your Ledger requires authentication. Learn more in the :doc:`/app-dev/authorization` docs.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. It talks to the Ledger API to get data it needs to operate, for this you need to *provide an access token* if your Ledger requires authorization. Learn more in the :doc:`/app-dev/authorization` docs.
```
Note where the link to the docs goes to :slightly_smiling_face:

.. note:: By default, the DAML Sandbox does not does not require access tokens. In this case, you can omit the token used by the JSON API to request packages. However, you still need to provide a party-specific access token when submitting commands or queries as a party. The token will not be validated in this case but it will be decoded to extract information like the party submitting the command.

Internal Access Token
---------------------

This access token is used exclusively by the JSON API service for maintaining the internal list of known packages and templates that it gets from the Ledger API.

.. note:: At no point should this access token be provided to an end user, these are for internal use only.

Every access token is different and will depend on your specific ledger operator's requirements.
The JSON API server requires no access to party-specific data, only access to the ledger identity and package services.
These services are public meaning that you need a valid token to access them but no party-specific claims or an admin claim.

> Please refer to your ledger operator's documentation to find out how.

Reviewer 2: Seems like there should be something after `how`.

Once you have retrieved your access token, you can provide it to the JSON API by storing it in a file
and starting ``daml json-api`` with the flag ``--access-token-file /path/to/your/token.file``.

If the token cannot be read from the provided path or the Ledger API reports an authentication error
(for example due to token expiration), the JSON API will report the error via logging. 

.. note:: If the token file is updated with a new token it will be picked up at the next attempt to send a request. You can use this to handle cases where an old token expires without restarting your JSON API service.

Party-specific Access Tokens
----------------------------

> Party-specific requests, i.e., command submissions and queries, require a JWT with some additional restrictions compared to the JWT imposed on the format described in <insert link here>: The set of parties listed in `actAs` and `readAs` must contain exactly one party. In addition to that, the application id and ledger id are mandatory. HTTP requests pass the token in a header, while WebSocket requests pass the token in a subprotocol.

Reviewer 2: Needs an actual link in place of `<insert link here>`.

Author: Yup, see #2 here, can do you know which link is correct for this? https://github.com/digital-asset/daml/pull/7133#discussion_r472507970

Reviewer 2: https://docs.daml.com/tools/sandbox.html#token-payload

.. note:: While the JSON API receives the token it doesn't validate it itself. Upon receiving a token it will pass it, and all data contained within the request, on to the Ledger API's AuthService which will then determine if the token is valid and authorized. However, the JSON API does decode the token to extract the ledger id, application id and party so it requires that you use the JWT format documented below.

> In the DAML Sandbox testing environment, you can use https://jwt.io (or the JWT library of your choice) to generate your

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For a ledger without authorization, e.g., the default configuration of DAML Sandbox, you can use https://jwt.io (or the JWT library of your choice) to generate your
```

> token.  The default "header" is fine.  Under "Payload", fill in:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
token.  You can use an arbitrary secret here. The default "header" is fine.  Under "Payload", fill in:
```

This will connect to your ledger that is running on ``localhost:6865`` and start your JSON API server which you'll be able to query on ``localhost:7575``

With Query Store
------------------

Often when running the JSON API you'll want to cache queries, especially large queries, to decrease the workload of your underlying ledger.
The JSON API provides a way to do this by allowing you to specify a database to cache queries (currently PostgreSQL only).

In this case you can use the ``--query-store-jdbc-config`` flag, an example of which is below. 

.. note:: When you use the Query Store you'll want your first run to specify ``createSchema=true`` so that all the necessary tables are created. After the first run make sure ``createSchema=false`` so that it doesn't attempt to create the tables again.

.. code-block:: shell

    daml json-api --ledger-host localhost --ledger-port 6865 --http-port 7575 \
    --query-store-jdbc-config "driver=org.postgresql.Driver,url=jdbc:postgresql://localhost:5432/test?&ssl=true,user=postgres,password=password,createSchema=false"

.. note:: The JSON API provides many other useful configuration flags, run ``daml json-api --help`` to see all of them.

> Authentication and Authorization

Reviewer 2: I don’t think this section is correct.
1. Authentication isn’t handled by the ledger API. It is handled by your IAM, e.g., in our auth blogpost auth0 takes care of that.
2. The tokens are called access tokens not authentication tokens and authorization tokens or at least I have never heard that being used and it doesn’t match what we use in https://docs.daml.com/app-dev/authorization.html.
3. Related to that, I don’t understand why getting packages should be authentication and user requests are authorization. I think the crucial point here is that one request is initiated by the JSON API itself and it needs its own token for that (this needs documentation on which claims are required here) whereas the user-initiated requests just proxy the token from users.

Author: 1. Fixed.
2. They are access tokens but they're used for Authentication and Authorization. This was an attempt to disambiguate which access token the docs are talking about as it's a regular source of confusion. In hindsight leveraging these terms was the wrong approach. Let me know if the new commit makes sense and if there's any other changes to this section.

================================

The Ledger API and JSON API use the terms Authentication and Authorization to describe different aspects of their operation.
While these terms may sound similar they mean different things.

The JSON API essentially performs two separate tasks:

1. It talks to the Ledger API to get data it needs to operate, for this it needs to may need to provide an *authentication token* to the Ledger API if the Ledger API requires *authentication*.
2. It handles the requests coming from one or more Parties, for this each party needs to provide an *authorization token* with each request it sends to the JSON API.

Authentication
--------------

The authentication token is used exclusively for maintaining the internal list of known packages and templates.

.. note:: At no point should an authentication token be provided to an end user, these are for internal use only.

Every authentication token is different and will depend on what your specific ledger or ledger operator requires.
The JSON API server requires no access to party-specific data, only access to the ledger identity and package services.

> A token issued for the HTTP JSON API server should contain enough claims to contact these two services but no more than that.

Reviewer 2: Meaning no claims, those are both public endpoints. You just need a valid token.

Author: Should I remove this then?
```
A token issued for the HTTP JSON API server should contain enough claims to contact these two services but no more than that.
Please refer to your ledger operator's documentation to find out how.
```

Please refer to your ledger operator's documentation to find out how.

Once you have retrieved your access token, you can provide it to the JSON API by storing it in a file
and starting ``daml json-api`` with the flag ``--access-token-file /path/to/your/token.file``.

If the token cannot be read from the provided path or the Ledger API reports an authentication error
(for example due to token expiration), the JSON API will report the error via logging. 

> .. note:: If the token file is updated with a new token it will be picked up at the next attempt to send a request. You can use this to handle cases where an old token expires without interrupting your JSON API service.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.. note:: If the token file is updated with a new token it will be picked up at the next attempt to send a request. You can use this to handle cases where an old token expires without restarting your JSON API service.
```

Authorization
-------------

Every request from a client to the JSON API requires you to specify a party and some other settings,
with a JWT token.  Normal HTTP requests pass the token in an ``Authorization`` header, 
while WebSocket requests pass the token in a subprotocol.

> .. note:: While the JSON API receives the token it doesn't handle it itself. Upon receiving a token it will pass it on to the underlying Ledger's AuthService which will then determine if the token is valid and authorized. As such each token format is ledger/implementation-specific and the below example reflects only the format that is used for the DAML Sandbox.

Reviewer 2: > As such each token format is ledger/implementation-specific and the below example reflects only the format that is used for the DAML Sandbox.

This is at least partially wrong. The JSON API doesn’t validate the token but it does decode it and extract the claims from it. That’s why you don’t have to specify the party, application id or ledger id when submitting a command via the JSON API. So while there can be additional fields that will be validated by the ledger, you need to have the standard format. In fact there are even more limitations: The JSON API requires `applicationId`, `ledgerId` and requires that the set of ``act_as `union` readAs`` contains exactly one party.

Author: Where does `readAs` come from?

In the DAML Sandbox testing environment, you can use https://jwt.io to generate your
token.  The default "header" is fine.  Under "Payload", fill in:

.. code-block:: json

    {
      "https://daml.com/ledger-api": {
        "ledgerId": "MyLedger",

>         "applicationId": "HTTP-JSON-API-Gateway",

Reviewer 2: I’m not sure this is an improvement. This suggest that it is important that it has this specific value which is not the case.

Author: Does this not depend on `daml json-api --application-id <value>`? Made it this way since `HTTP-JSON-API-Gateway` is the default.

Could also start `daml json-api --application-id foobar` but I dislike showing flags that people often don't need to use.

        "actAs": ["Alice"]
      }
    }

The value of the ``ledgerId`` field has to match the ``ledgerId` of your underlying DAML Ledger.
For the ``daml sandbox`` this corresponds to the ``--ledgerid MyLedger`` flag.

> The value of the ``applicationId`` field must match that provided to the ``daml json-api`` command with the flag

Reviewer 2: I don’t think this is true. As far as I can tell the `applicationId` you pass in via the command line flag is just unused atm. It definitely doesn’t need to match the one in the token (I wrote a test for that last week).

Author: If `applicationId` doesn't need to match anything that's pretty confusing for end users.

I believe `ledgerId` needs to match the DAML Ledger though.

``--application-id`` (default is ``HTTP-JSON-API-Gateway``).

The value for ``actAs`` is specified as a list. You can replace ``Alice`` with whatever party you want to use,
provided that it is a valid party on the ledger.

> For the ``daml sandbox`` any string will create a party with that name.

Reviewer 2: Not quite. There are still restrictions on valid party names. And I think this is the wrong place to explain implicit party allocation anyway.

Author: Wouldn't `provided that it's a valid party on the ledger` cover `valid party names`?

I know as a user of the JSON API I would want to know how I can specify the party I want to use.

We should have a link to the section of the docs that explains implicit party allocation though.

Reviewer 2: There are two cases:
1. The party is allocated on the ledger. Then it is clearly also a valid party string. This is what you should usually be working with on any ledger that doesn’t have implicit party allocation.
2. The party is not allocated but it is a valid party string. This only works if you have implicit party allocation. Otherwise, things will fail.

      }
    }

The value of the ``ledgerId`` field has to match the ``ledgerId` of your underlying DAML Ledger.
For the Sandbox this corresponds to the ``--ledgerid MyLedger`` flag.

.. note:: The value of ``applicationId`` will be used for commands submitted using that token.

The value for ``actAs`` is specified as a list and you provide it with the party that you want to use.
Such as the example which uses ``Alice`` for a party. Each request can only be for one party.
For example you couldn't have ``actAs`` defined as ``["Alice", "Bob"]``.

> For the Sandbox any string will create use a party with that name if it exists, 
> or create it if it does not. This is known as "implicit party allocation" and is unique to the Sandbox.
> 
> For non-Sandbox ledgers the party must already exist on the ledger in order to be used.
> This is known as "explicit party allocation" and is common on all non-Sandbox ledgers.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The party should reference an already allocated party.
```
This is really not the right place to explain implicit party allocation. If you want to document this, add something to the sandbox docs and reference it here but I recommend leaving that to a separate PR.

> .. note:: To explicitly allocate parties you can use :doc:`DAML Script </daml-script/index>` or ``daml ledger allocate-parties``

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```
This is about the JSON API not party allocation.

> Under "Verify Signature", put ``secret`` (or any other text) as the secret (*not* base64 encoded).
> 
> .. note:: At the moment ``secret`` is not validated

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.. note:: As mentioned above the JSON API does not validate tokens so if your ledger runs without authorization you can use an arbitrary secret.
```
```

Then the "Encoded" box should have your **token**, ready for passing to
the service as described in the following sections.

Alternatively, here are two tokens you can use for testing:

``{"https://daml.com/ledger-api": {"ledgerId": "MyLedger", "applicationId": "HTTP-JSON-API-Gateway", "actAs": ["Alice"]}}``:

.. code-block:: none

    eyJhbGciOiJIUzI1NiIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJodHRwczovL2RhbWwuY29tL2xlZGdlci1hcGkiOnsibGVkZ2VySWQiOiJNeUxlZGdlciIsImFwcGxpY2F0aW9uSWQiOiJIVFRQLUpTT04tQVBJLUdhdGV3YXkiLCJhY3RBcyI6WyJBbGljZSJdfX0.34zzF_fbWv7p60r5s1kKzwndvGdsJDX-W4Xhm4oVdpk

``{"https://daml.com/ledger-api": {"ledgerId": "MyLedger", "applicationId": "HTTP-JSON-API-Gateway", "actAs": ["Bob"]}}``:

.. code-block:: none

> 

Reviewer 2: Does this actually render as code? I thought two newlines mean it no longer belongs to the code block.

Author: Yes all is rendering correctly, there's 1 newline after the `code-block` delegation and two newlines separating the inline code block that displays the json-encoded token.

      }
    }

The value of the ``ledgerId`` field has to match the ``ledgerId` of your underlying DAML Ledger.
For the ``daml sandbox`` this corresponds to the ``--ledgerid MyLedger`` flag.

> .. note:: The value of ``applicationId`` can currently be anything and does not need to correspond to ``daml json-api --application-id <value>``.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.. note:: The value of ``applicationId`` will be used for commands submitted using that token.
```

Reviewer 2: I would just ignore the `--application-id` flag for now. I don’t see any case where it matters. I’ll open an issue for that.

The value for ``actAs`` is specified as a list. You can replace ``Alice`` with whatever party you want to use,
provided that it is a valid party on the ledger.
For the ``daml sandbox`` any string will create a party with that name.

> Under "Verify Signature", put ``secret`` as the secret (*not* base64

Reviewer 2: This is a lie. It doesn’t matter what secret you use here. The JSON API only decodes the token. It doesn’t validate it which is the part where the secret would matter.

Alternatively, here are two tokens you can use for testing:

``{"https://daml.com/ledger-api": {"ledgerId": "MyLedger", "applicationId": "HTTP-JSON-API-Gateway", "actAs": ["Alice"]}}``:

.. code-block:: none

    eyJhbGciOiJIUzI1NiIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJodHRwczovL2RhbWwuY29tL2xlZGdlci1hcGkiOnsibGVkZ2VySWQiOiJNeUxlZGdlciIsImFwcGxpY2F0aW9uSWQiOiJIVFRQLUpTT04tQVBJLUdhdGV3YXkiLCJhY3RBcyI6WyJBbGljZSJdfX0.34zzF_fbWv7p60r5s1kKzwndvGdsJDX-W4Xhm4oVdpk

``{"https://daml.com/ledger-api": {"ledgerId": "MyLedger", "applicationId": "HTTP-JSON-API-Gateway", "actAs": ["Bob"]}}``:

.. code-block:: none

    eyJhbGciOiJIUzI1NiIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJodHRwczovL2RhbWwuY29tL2xlZGdlci1hcGkiOnsibGVkZ2VySWQiOiJNeUxlZGdlciIsImFwcGxpY2F0aW9uSWQiOiJIVFRQLUpTT04tQVBJLUdhdGV3YXkiLCJhY3RBcyI6WyJCb2IiXX19.0uPPZtM1AmKvnGixt_Qo53cMDcpnziCjKKiWLvMX2VM

> Party Auth via HTTP

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Auth via HTTP
```
This doesn’t just apply to party-specific requests. It also applies to requests like allocating a party.

^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Set HTTP header ``Authorization: Bearer paste-jwt-here``

Example: 

.. code-block:: none 

    Authorization: Bearer eyJhbGciOiJIUzI1NiIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJodHRwczovL2RhbWwuY29tL2xlZGdlci1hcGkiOnsibGVkZ2VySWQiOiJNeUxlZGdlciIsImFwcGxpY2F0aW9uSWQiOiJIVFRQLUpTT04tQVBJLUdhdGV3YXkiLCJhY3RBcyI6WyJBbGljZSJdfX0.34zzF_fbWv7p60r5s1kKzwndvGdsJDX-W4Xhm4oVdpk

> Party Auth via WebSockets

Reviewer 2: Technically all websocket requests are party-specific atm but I would still recommend removing the “Party” prefix. There isn’t anything that stops us from adding non-party specific endpoints.

Alternatively, here are two tokens you can use for testing:

``{"https://daml.com/ledger-api": {"ledgerId": "MyLedger", "applicationId": "HTTP-JSON-API-Gateway", "actAs": ["Alice"]}}``:

.. code-block:: none

    eyJhbGciOiJIUzI1NiIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJodHRwczovL2RhbWwuY29tL2xlZGdlci1hcGkiOnsibGVkZ2VySWQiOiJNeUxlZGdlciIsImFwcGxpY2F0aW9uSWQiOiJIVFRQLUpTT04tQVBJLUdhdGV3YXkiLCJhY3RBcyI6WyJBbGljZSJdfX0.34zzF_fbWv7p60r5s1kKzwndvGdsJDX-W4Xhm4oVdpk

``{"https://daml.com/ledger-api": {"ledgerId": "MyLedger", "applicationId": "HTTP-JSON-API-Gateway", "actAs": ["Bob"]}}``:

.. code-block:: none

    eyJhbGciOiJIUzI1NiIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJodHRwczovL2RhbWwuY29tL2xlZGdlci1hcGkiOnsibGVkZ2VySWQiOiJNeUxlZGdlciIsImFwcGxpY2F0aW9uSWQiOiJIVFRQLUpTT04tQVBJLUdhdGV3YXkiLCJhY3RBcyI6WyJCb2IiXX19.0uPPZtM1AmKvnGixt_Qo53cMDcpnziCjKKiWLvMX2VM

For production use, we have a tool in development for generating proper
RSA-encrypted tokens locally, which will arrive when the service also
supports such tokens.

> In the meantime you can also use whichever JWT libraries are available in the language of your choice.

Reviewer 2: I think this section should just go. I’m not aware of any intention to develop such a tool and frankly I don’t think it makes sense to have such a tool. The tokens are generated by your IAM.

.. _create-request-with-meta:

Creating a Contract with a Command ID
*************************************

> When creating a new contract you may specify an optional ``meta`` field.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When creating a new contract you may specify an optional ``meta`` field. This allows you to control the `commandId` used when submitting a commend to the ledger.
```

Exercise by Contract Key
************************

> The JSON command below, demonstrates how to exercise ``Archive`` a choice on ``Account`` contract with a ``(Party, Text)`` :doc:`contract key </daml/reference/contract-keys>` defined like this:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The JSON command below, demonstrates how to exercise the ``Archive`` choice on the ``Account`` contract with a ``(Party, Text)`` :doc:`contract key </daml/reference/contract-keys>` defined like this:
```

The response is the same as for the POST method below.

> Get all Active Contracts Matching a Given Query

Reviewer 2: Pretty sure you need more stars here.

The response is the same as for the POST method below.

> Query all Active Contracts

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Get all Active Contracts Matching a Given Query
```
Makes it clearer what the difference between the one above and this one is.
